
1. objectives
2. methodology
Describe methodology, concepts, models and assumptions with the objectives in mind. the framework should be implemented like a spring framework, some skeleton code should be generated with a metamodel blueprint. The devices in the decentralized system should use some form of common API interface to communicate and be quick in these communications. The AI models provided should combine both a decentralized and centralized methodology to process data quickly, and these models should be dynamically changing and improving based on the interactions of users(so the operation of prediction, training, improving should all be online and for streams of data). To obtain high performance and good results for streams of data, and models.  Devices as agents, the decision support framework is distributed, decentralized, connected with other agents, and dynamic (always improving with input).  A diagram like sequence diagrams, workflow diagrams for the WP and tasks and a lot of everything.  Substituting ingenias with my metamodels, based on ontologies and multiagents. IDIoHMA will handle stream data and events from the environment and from the user and will act accordingly to specification (in a hybrid environment where the important decision will be taken by humans aided by the software).
3. novelty
compare the framework with other projects that are aimed at similar objectives.
The projects compared are:
- non-european projects
  - [A hybrid decision support system based on rough set and extreme learning machine for diagnosis of hepatitis disease](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1568494613001130?casa_token=D6OL0towVDAAAAAA:eBqwdppOaVmgzJmggTfHQszAb25xo6g85cFeuBA9cj0K8e3eCf599Xw68Q5IetrByhY8Sw)
    - **Abstract**: Hepatitis is a disease which is seen at all levels of age. Hepatitis disease solely does not have a lethal effect, but the early diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis is crucial as it triggers other diseases. In this study, a new hybrid medical decision support system based on rough set (RS) and extreme learning machine (ELM) has been proposed for the diagnosis of hepatitis disease. RS-ELM consists of two stages. In the first one, redundant features have been removed from the data set through RS approach. In the second one, classification process has been implemented through ELM by using remaining features. Hepatitis data set, taken from UCI machine learning repository has been used to test the proposed hybrid model. A major part of the data set (48.3%) includes missing values. As removal of missing values from the data set leads to data loss, feature selection has been done in the first stage without deleting missing values. In the second stage, the classification process has been performed through ELM after the removal of missing values from sub-featured data sets that were reduced in different dimensions. The results showed that the highest 100.00% classification accuracy has been achieved through RS-ELM and it has been observed that RS-ELM model has been considerably successful compared to the other methods in the literature. Furthermore in this study, the most significant features have been determined for the diagnosis of the hepatitis. It is considered that proposed method is to be useful in similar medical applications.
    - **Introduction**:Liver is an organ which has a wide range of functions, including digestion, energy production, glycogen storage, detoxiﬁcation and regulation of blood glucose. Various diseases or microorganisms such as virus, bacteria prevents liver from functioning by damaging it [1,2]. One of these viruses, hepatitis locates in the cells in the liver tissue leading to the loss of the functioning of these cells. Healthy cells with virus infected become dysfunctional. Recently, types of hepatitis disease have been widespread throughout the world [3].  Hepatitis diseases has ﬁve different types and there are termed as Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Hepatitis D and Hepatitis E [1,4]. The target organ is liver in all types of Hepatitis. Each type has speciﬁc symptoms and most of them are treated succesfully.  Hepatitis A is generally seen in children and named as infection hepatitits. Hepatitis A is prevented generally by going through an illness or vaccination. Hepatitis B and C are considered as carriers and there are no signs or symptoms of these diseases. Hepatitis B, caused by hepatitis B virus which damages liver by attacking it, is the most common liver infection in the world. Hepatitis dis- eases can be infected through blood, unprotected sex, shared or reused syringes. Moreover, during pregnancy or postpartum, it can be transmitted to the infant from mother with hepatitis [2]. For early diagnosis of these diseases, a blood test is required once a year.
    - **comparison or inspiration**: The process of the model described for the decision support system relies on a pipeline of actions done on the data to acquire knowledge that will be used to create and help the doctors in taking decisions. the overall project is not that similar to what we want to do, since the model created by the whole thing is not distributed and does not handle stream, dynamic and heterogeneous data but a software that will be used on a dataset. From their point of view, the **hybrid** part of the model is the fact that it uses 2 techniques to build the decision, so it has nothing to do with the fact that the decision is taken along a human.
  - [A hybrid decision support system for analyzing challenges of the agricultural supply chain](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352550918303129?casa_token=cb7MMdcmQJ0AAAAA:dvydU0m8kaVwKoOWJ0l9Aho2ZheWRQ_lmMJcaejfeNxWaEVQSAIpG29zZqq62SFpJbp26Q)
    - **Abstract**:Agricultural supply chain management includes all the events involved in moving products of the agricultural sector from the field to the customer, and is a crucial aspect ensuring the rich contribution of the agricultural sector to the economic growth of the nation. The purpose of this paper is to add value to the present knowledge base by ascertaining the challenges of the agricultural supply chain in India on the basis of a thorough literature survey and the Delphi technique. Following this, the decision-making trial and evaluation laboratory approach was used to model the identified challenges, explore the cause–effect interrelationship, and to develop the systematic hierarchical structures of challenges through an interpretive structural modeling methodology. The implementation of the approach in the Indian context led to the inference that two factors, namely limited integration among the national agricultural markets, and limited agricultural market infrastructure were the most important ones. The integrated model obtained as an output of this study intends to guide the agricultural policy- and decision-makers to improve the performance of the agricultural supply chain in India. Also, some essential recommendations have been given to improve the efficiency of the agricultural supply chain management.
    - **Introduction**:Efficient Agricultural supply chain management (ASCM) aims to move agricultural products from the farmers to the end users with the highest possible speed and lowest possible product damage.  Various interconnected activities are involved in this process, in- cluding production planning, producing, harvesting, grading, pack- ing, transporting, storing, processing, distributing, publicity, and sales (Vyas, 2014). ASCM plays an essential role in boosting pro- duction and consumption and accelerates financial growth (Na- jafabadi, 2011). In recent times, ASCM has become very challeng- ing due to the complexity linked to the involvement of latest technologies, communication and transportation, and economic transactions among the countries, intermediaries, and traders.  The primary objectives of the ASCM are to help farmers get fair returns, reduce the difference in prices between farmers and customers, and to ensure acceptable product quality 
    - **comparison or inspiration**: Almost nothing related to IDIoHMA, other than a possible use case where farmers in general use the network of decision-support to take decisions based on various sensors and on a consensus among all farmers in a specific area and in the whole state(a combination of the two) to maximize profit and lowering the waste products for failed tactics.
  - [A hybrid decision support system for sustainable office building renovation and energy performance improvement](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0378778809002205?casa_token=aM_na1GLKR0AAAAA:TTJxw8fTAskeDTHP3w0gbIqwDPwSbMaLHPVRIz15NLdadBLrI_BaR42iZbjHRiQpe5EZ7w)
    - **Abstract**:Energy consumption of buildings accounts for around 20–40% of all energy consumed in advanced countries. Over the last decade, more and more global organizations are investing significant resources to create sustainably built environments, emphasizing sustainable building renovation processes to reduce energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions. This study develops an integrated decision support system to assess existing office building conditions and to recommend an optimal set of sustainable renovation actions, considering trade-offs between renovation cost, improved building quality, and environmental impacts. A hybrid approach that combines A-star graph search algorithm with genetic algorithms (GA) is used to analyze all possible renovation actions and their trade-offs to develop the optimal solution. A two-stage system validation is performed to demonstrate the practical application of the hybrid approach: zero-one goal programming (ZOGP) and genetic algorithms are adopted to validate the effectiveness of the algorithm. A real-world renovation project is introduced to validate differences in energy performance projected for the renovation solution suggested by the system. The results reveal that the proposed hybrid system is more computationally effective than either ZOGP or GA alone. The system's suggested renovation actions would provide substantial energy performance improvements to the real project if implemented.
    - **Introduction**:Many global organizations have invested significant resources to create sustainable environments during the last decade [1]. As the economic, environmental and social aspects of built environ- ment sustainability are considered, building renovation has received increasing attention as a viable alternative to redevelop- ment or reconstruction, reducing the tremendous cost, abating environmental impacts and maintaining better social relationships with neighbors [2,3].  Energy consumption by buildings usually accounts for around 20–40% of the total energy consumption in advanced countries. For example, buildings consume 39% of total energy in the UK, 37% of total energy in the EU [4], 37% of total energy in the US [5], 31% of total energy in Japan [6], and 40% of total energy in Hong Kong. In the EU and US, energy consumption by buildings has even exceeded the energy consumption of the industrial and transpor- tation sectors. During a building’s long life cycle, operational energy services, including HVAC, lighting, equipment and appli- ances, etc., contribute to approximately 80% of total building energy consumption [7]. Improving energy efficiency in existing buildings is undoubtedly considered to be one of the most sustainable and feasible measures for reducing carbon emissions and energy expenditures
    - **comparison or inspiration**: Interesting paper about the decision making of some renovations action on buildings to lower the energy consuption(optimize energy performance of the building). Also this research could be taken as an inspiration since the overall objective is similar to some objectives of IDIoHMA. Maybe the whole project can be expanded and refined with the use of IDIoHMA by integrating some smart devices (cheap or available devices since the control could be done with smartphones, smartwatch, IoT already in the house or that are very cheap, etc.) around the building to control energy consumption and help the residents to take decisions on the energy consumption while making them aware of what they are consuming and what to do to optimize the usage of energy(analysing the data of the devices, and by taking the feedback, both implicit and explicit, of the residents to build a decision model). Really interesting.
  - [A hybrid Decision Support System for automating decision making in the event of defects in the era of Zero Defect Manufacturing](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2452414X21000613)
    - **Abstract**:Defects are unavoidable during manufacturing processes, and a tremendous amount of research aimed at improving defect prevention has been conducted by scholars. Zero Defect Manufacturing (ZDM) seeks to elim- inate defects in production. In addition, technological advancements now allow the repair of defective products.  This creates the need to re-schedule productions more frequently in order to take into account the actions necessary to fix defective parts. This study focuses on detection and repair-based ZDM strategies. It implements a newly developed, hybrid Decision Support System (DSS) that uses data-driven and knowledge-based approaches to detect defects and then automate the necessary decision-making processes. The system uses an ontology based on the MASON ontology in order to describe the production domain and enrich the available data with contextual information. Real time production data and past knowledge are utilized to analyse defects, identify their type and severity, and suggest alternative repair plans. Possible repair plans are evaluated using a dynamic multi-criteria approach that determines the plan most suited to production conditions at the time of defect detection. To test the efficacy of the DSS developed for this study, it was integrated with a dynamic scheduling tool and was also used in an industrial application in the semiconductor domain. The simulations and the real- world implementation both show that the proposed DSS system can efficiently detect defects and automate the post-detection decision-making process. The multi-criteria approach adopted by this study proves that the DSS can make well-adapted decisions, handle the dynamic nature of a production system, and help manufacturers move closer to Zero Defect Manufacturing.
    - **Introduction**:For several years, the amount of manufacturing date available has been drastically increasing. This is creating new business opportunities across numerous industries. Today, intelligent systems can extract meaningful information and enhance the decision-making capabilities of a company. The development of such systems and the availability of more manufacturing data has created new optimization opportunities. A recent topic is zero-defect manufacturing (ZDM), which aims to reduce scrap costs, detect defects at early stages, and prevent their propagation or occurrence in order to assure the highest quality production outputs [1,2]. ZDM is chosen over traditional quality improvement methods such as ‘six sigma’ or ‘lean’ because it utilizes data from both the past and the present. Traditional quality improvement methods utilize only data from the past [3]. Data-driven decision-making has led to the development of Decision Support Systems, commonly referred as DSSs [4]. These systems collect data from diverse sources, and provide faster and better decision-making. Therefore, collecting data of the highest quality is of crucial importance [5]. In particular, the implementation of a DSS can enable the scraps reduction, minimize low quality costs [6] and disturb as little as possible the production schedule. Production defects can occur due to a number of random human, raw material, and tool related factors. Human errors often include omissions and incorrect task executions [7]. Raw material related defects are commonly related to grain structures and material impurities [8]. Similarly, product de- fects related to equipment usage are largely due to worn out equipment or the poor calibration of the system [9]. As such, defects are considered an undesired yet unavoidable manufacturing phenomenon
    - **comparison or inspiration**: really interesting topic about the automation to guarantee an high percentage to the zero defect manufacturing process with decision support models. Also the model and approach used to attack the problem (data-driven and knowledge-based with the use of the ontologies). Really interesting research that could give me some ideas for the production of some models for the decision support part of IDIoHMA.
  - [Knowledge-intensive collaborative decision support for design processes: A hybrid decision support model and agent](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166361508000857?casa_token=hVVpw212cO0AAAAA:VMzfUGCXzx2S9ZUbIz4c3g9-HpUsvDOZwAvdSxPHrPBEYfHhnVEOPcoeHS07LD6OFtOTbw)
    - **Abstract**:This paper proposes a hybrid decision support model within a multi-agent framework to facilitate integration and collaboration for design decisions. The hybrid decision model integrates the compromise decision support problem technique (cDSP) and the fuzzy synthetic decision model (FSD) to quantitatively incorporate qualitative design knowledge and preferences of designers for multiple, conflicting attributes stored in a knowledge repository so that a better understanding of the consequences of design decisions can be achieved from a more comprehensive perspective. The focus of this work is on the provision of a hybrid decision model and framework for improved cooperative design decision support. The novelty of the work is in combination of different models or methods, algorithms for making collaborative design decisions in both objective and subjective natures, in particular the fuzzy negotiation mechanism using the hybrid decision model. The developed hybrid decision model and framework are generic and flexible enough to be used in a variety of decision problems. Finally, the proposed hybrid decision model and framework are illustrated with applications in collaborative concept evaluation and selection in product family design for mass customization.
    - **Introduction**:Design of complex engineering systems is increasingly becoming a collaborative task among designers or design teams that are physically, geographically, and temporally distributed. Collabora- tive design task essentially involves decision-making processes that require evaluation, comparison and selection of design alternatives as well as eventual optimization from a systematic perspective. For example, a product development team is generally composed of representatives from marketing, business development, engineer- ing, and production. Those team members utilize various decision- making techniques and design criteria to develop and evaluate various design alternatives. Increasing design knowledge and supporting collaboration among designers or other decision-makers (e.g. customers) to make intelligent decisions can increase design efficiency and result in higher quality designs. 
    - **comparison or inspiration**: From the premises, this is the most similar paper to IDIoHMA objectives. IDIoHMA is a framework that facilitates integration and collaboration for decision taking in a distributed environment where devices(users) are modelled as nodes in a mesh network, and every nodes is also an agent that thinks and take decisions(multi-agent framework). This paper needs to be dissected and the ideas corrected and redacted to fit for IDIoHMA objectives and in some part of the core framework(also by only taking some ideas, the final core framework will be completely different). **TODO**
- european projects
  - [Big data pRocessing and Artificial Intelligence at the Network Edge BRAINE](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/876967)
    - **Abstract** Thanks to its multiple technical advantages, edge computing is capable of considerably boosting services and applications. It can do this by supporting AI natively instead of relying on the cloud. The EU-funded BRAINE project aims to further the development of edge computing by focusing on energy-efficient hardware and AI software that can process Big Data at the edge and support security, data privacy and sovereignty. To achieve its goal, it will build a seamless edge microdata centre interlinked with AI-enabled network interface cards. Through its work, the project will advance Europe’s position in intelligent edge computing and promote growth in sectors such as smart manufacturing, the Internet of Things, smart cities and smart healthcare.
    - **objectives** Edge computing offers many technical advantages, e.g. reduced latency, secure decentralized processing and storage, scalability at lower complexity, versatility to adapt the changes in resources and applications, and increased reliability. Edge computing can dramatically boost services and applications by supporting artificial intelligence (AI) natively, instead of relying on the cloud. Edge computing supporting AI is the only technology that will enable many of the long-awaited game changers: Industry4.0 and smart manufacturing, 5G, IoT, self-driving vehicles, remote robotics for healthcare, and machine vision among others.The BRAINE project’s overall aim is to boost the development of the Edge framework focusing on energy efficient hardware and AI empowered software, capable of processing Big Data at the Edge, supporting security, data privacy, and sovereignty. The approach is to build a seamless Edge MicroDataCenter interlinked with AI enabled network interface cards. BRAINE employs a visionary utilization method for edge resources management and network-edge workload distribution. Predicting resource availability and workload demand, identifying trends, and taking proactive actions are all aspects of these novel methods.The impact of BRAINE encompasses advances in the European video distribution ecosystem, improving data processing at the network edge, and proving integrated AI for applications. These will lead to unprecedented savings in performance and energy efficiency: 2x performance/Watt and 50% energy savings; 71% latency reduction for an acceleration centric EMDC; 80% space and maintenance reduction, 99.999% fault tolerance with level 5 autonomy (autonomous driving, robotics, mission-critical system); and significantly faster infrastructure installation and deployment. BRAINE boosts EU’s position in the intelligent edge computing field and enables growth across many sectors, e.g. manufacturing, smart healthcare, surveillance, satellite navigation.
    - **comparision** IDIoHMA will also use common devices to do edge computing and keep energy efficency really high since the decision support system will act especially on edge devices that are already being used for other things (smartphones, smartwatch, smartcity devices), the final implementation will be used directly on these devices in a mesh-network where devices with the same goal contribute to the final objectives (to support something in one or more decisions). IDIoHMA has the common objective of promoting growth in the IoT environment and provide an adaptable interface to situations where there is a need for a decision support system. 
  - [Enhancing decision support and management services in extreme weather climate events](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/700475)
    - **Abstract**In every disaster and crisis, incident time is the enemy, and getting accurate information about the scope, extent, and impact of the disaster is critical to creating and orchestrating an effective disaster response and recovery effort. The main goal of beAWARE is to provide support in all the phases of an emergency incident. More specifically, we propose an integrated solution to support forecasting, early warnings, transmission and routing of the emergency data, aggregated analysis of multimodal data and management the coordination between the first responders and the authorities. Our intention is to rely on platforms, theories and methodologies that are already used for disaster forecasting and management and add the elements that are necessary to make them working efficiently and in harm under the same objective. The overall context for beAWARE lies in the domain of situational awareness and command and control (C2). The first phase concerns the forecast of the extreme condition and the relevant preparations. Once a disaster occurs, an initial assessment needs to be conducted as soon as possible to determine the scope, geographical distribution, and scale of the incident. Situational awareness means being able to accurately determine what has happened, what is happening now, and what will come next, all in order to plan and coordinate the most effective response possible with the resources available. This observation phase will lead to an orientation phase suggesting both an individual as well as collective “cognition” orientation to data that is sensed and communicated. Once orientation to the data (or the lack of it) occurs then a decision is made, ultimately resulting is the final step, which is “act”. The crisis management center is always striving or struggling to gain a sense of what is reality to be able to feel that he or she can make a decision that is the ""best possible"" given the circumstances.
    - **objectives** Getting accurate information about the scope, extent and impact of the disaster is critical to creating and orchestrating an effective disaster response and recovery effort. The main goal of beAWARE is to provide support in all the phases of an emergency incident.” The beAWARE knowledge base is the semantic foundation that provides the classification scheme and deduction rules and also analyses information and distributes outcomes. Information is obtained from local citizens, first responders, social media, local weather forecasts, sensors such as in situ static cameras to monitor water levels and even cameras on drones.  Citizens and first responders communicate with the beAWARE platform via the beAWARE mobile application. The social media monitoring module searches for and validates related social media content and then analyses it to perform spatiotemporal grouping of relevant posts.  The smart algorithms analyse both visual and audio information. As Dr Karakostas explains, “the visual analysis module can define the type of crisis, detect relevant objects (for example, cars in a flooded area) and estimate the traffic.” An automated speech recognition module transcribes audio messages received through the beAWARE mobile app or phone calls in four languages (English, Greek, Italian and Spanish).  “The Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) is beAWARE’s central command and control system,” Dr Karakostas notes. “It receives information from citizens, first responders and social media, processes it through automatic reasoning engines and analytics services and generates automatic incident reports or enriches field reports with information based on multimedia, social media and sensor analytics.” Two field pilots validated the beAWARE platform: a heatwave simulation in Greece, and a flood simulation in the Italian Eastern Alps region. During the flood test, the mayor as decision-maker was supported by various offices of the municipality and region to staff the control room and act as first responders.
    - **comparision**: the whole project of beAWARE is about the creation and orchestration of effective disaster response and recovery efforts and to provide support to all the phases of an emergency. The details of the project are specifically for the case of emergency cases, while IDIoHMA focus is toward the creation of the software and the methodologies to use for the decision support system in a decentralized and collaborative environment. Since the aim of beAWARE needs to be really focused on the task of security and trustworthy decisions to mantain the wellbeing of the citizens, the project dedicate a lot of resources to account for the measures and the reliability of the decisions taken. IDIoHMA, on the other hand, is a framework that is used to create an hybrid decision support system that relies on a decentralized network of devices that work in the same environment or are an interface to other environments that have the same functions and work on the coordination and orchestration of the these devices to create the computation network needed to build the decision model dynamically from the decision of its users, aside from that, the final product will be mainly dependent on the implementation of the developers and how they integrate the framework with what they want to achieve.
  - [Enabling Demand Response for short and real-time Efficient And Market Based smart Grid Operation - An intelligent and real-time simulation approachEnabling Demand Response for short and real-time Efficient And Market Based smart Grid Operation - An intelligent and real-time simulation approach](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/641794)
    - **Abstract**: Demand Response helps fulfil the Smart Grid potential. In practice, at the moment only a few smart grids (SGs), based on automated operations and smart metering, are up and running in Europe. The diversity of users and renewable energy resources present a very real challenge to the economic model. By focusing on consumer remuneration strategies, one EU project hopes to make SGs more attractive.
    - **objectives**: Smart Grid (SG) concepts are rapidly being transferred to the market and huge investments have been made in renewable based electricity generation and rolling out smart meters. However, the present state of the art does not ensure neither a good return of investment nor a sustainable and efficient power system. The work so far in the EU involves mainly larger stakeholders, namely power utilities and manufacturers more focused on production and grid resources. A closer attention to the demand side of the system is required, and especially in the interaction with the new methods for SG management.  Efficient power systems require the optimal use of the available resources to cope with demand requirements and Demand Response (DR) programs with adequate business models can leverage demand flexibility both on centralized and distributed models, as renewable energygeneration is highly dependable of uncontrolled factors (as wind and solar radiation) for which anticipated forecasts are hardly trustful.  DREAM-GO puts together research teams from the EU and US thus taking advantage of US experience in DR, teaming up academic partners with pioneer work in smart grid management and non-academic partners (SMEs) with the required know how and infrastructure to jointly produce relevant advancements in the state of the art. SME participation will ensure cross-fertilization of ideas and competences to build a knowledge network targeting the scientific community and other smart grid actors, as power resource managers, grid operators and resource aggregators, and ultimately targeting consumers (through consumers organisations and curtailment service providers) on the demand side. The main goal is to create a framework with the required methods and solutions to facilitate the adoption of the results in final applications, by providing grounded scientific knowledge to possible pathways for future implementation of a more efficient SG system in the EU.
    - **comparision**: IDIoHMA could be used for smart-grids, since the whole concepts is to take decision for monitoring, redirecting, handling voltages, handling sources, handling failure and a lot of other things could be implemented in IDIoHMA and some core functionalities of the project could be useful to build a smart-grid quickly, where the devices are agents related to some part of the smart grid(even hierarchical since some devices will be used to control a set of other devices, like devices related to a grid of solar panels, another device could handle the source of power from a grid of devices related to wind energy, etc.), and smart-grids in general rely a lot on the concept of taking decision alone or in a hybrid environment(especially when decisions are taken from consensus of various parts). A thing that could be done is a pilot or a use-case for smart-grids with IDIoHMA, since it is really related to the topic.   
  - [A secure and reusable Artificial Intelligence platform for Edge computing in beyond 5G Networks](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/101015922) this project is really important both for the topi and the ideas presented, It has also started last year so it is a new research(it also has a paper where almost everything is explained)
    - **Abstract**: Artificial intelligence (AI) is one of the key technologies shaping the future of the internet and the world. With a greater number of applications than ever before, significant progress has been made in the performance and accuracy of AI-based solutions. However, AI integration into decision-making systems and critical infrastructure still requires assuring end-to-end quality. The EU-funded AI@EDGE project will address these issues by introducing reusable, secure and trustworthy AI solutions in the network edge. The goal is to revolutionise communication networks in a variety of applications, including vehicles, industrial networks, aviation and in-flight entertainment, introducing the AI-for-networks and networks-for-AI paradigms. With this approach, AI@EDGE aims to positively impact industry innovation throughout Europe while shaping the future of AI.
    - **objectives**:Artificial Intelligence has become a major innovative force and it is one of the pillars of the fourth industrial revolution. This trend has been acknowledged also by the European Commission that has already pointed out how high-performance, intelligent, and secure networks are fundamental for the development and evolution of the multi-service Next Generation Internet (NGI). While great progress has been done during the last years with respect to the accuracy and performance of AI-enabled platforms, their integration in potentially autonomous decision-making systems or even critical infrastructures requires end-to-end quality assurance.  AI@EDGE addresses the challenges harnessing the concept of “reusable, secure, and trustworthy AI for network automation”. In AI@EDGE European industries, academics and innovative SMEs commit to achieve an EU-wide impact on industry-relevant aspects of the AI-for-networks and networks-for-AI paradigms in beyond 5G systems. Cooperative perception for vehicular networks, secure, multi-stakeholder AI for IIoT, aerial infrastructure inspections, and in-flight entertainment are the uses cases targeted by AI@EDGE to maximise the commercial, societal, and environmental impact.  To achieve the goal, AI@EDGE targets significant breakthroughs in two fields: (i) general-purpose frameworks for closed-loop network automation capable of supporting flexible and programmable pipelines for the creation, utilization, and adaptation of the secure, reusable, and trustworthy AI/ML models; and (ii) converged connect-compute platform for creating and managing resilient, elastic, and secure end-to-end slices capable of supporting a diverse range of AI-enabled network applications.
    - **comparision**: IDIoHMA has the objective of a true human-AI hybrid system for human empowerment, the scope of the project is not only aimed toward a decision-support system for some specific tasks, but to a framework that could also implements other things other than decision-support, like a network of devices that collect some feedback on the users and give them some aggregated and significant information about what they are doing, or some software that provides users with different measures and information (like some embeddings) that could be used by the user or the software developer to create something both for the users and for the stakeholders as well (like building clusters of users to understand their interests and habits, or understand the demand of some products). The use cases are endless and the core functionalities of IDIoHMA will provide everything to build a decentralized system for human empowerment. **TODO** talk a little more about the impact and how the framework respecte the **DO NOT SIGNIFICANT HARM** principle. 
  - [Empowering and participatory adaptation of factory automation to fit for workers](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/723277)
    - **Abstract**:Artificial intelligence can be harnessed to empower workers in smart factories of the future. EU researchers have developed tools, including evolutionary algorithms, to optimise task allocations and ensure that staff can achieve their full professional potential.AI solutions developed through the Factory2Fit (Empowering and participatory adaptation of factory automation to fit for workers) project have been designed to enable workers to have more influence over their work, and to take greater responsibility for their own learning and skills development. Final solutions were piloted in industrial environments, and demonstrated the positive impact that AI can have on both productivity and worker well-being.  Since project completion, some of these tools, such as a knowledge sharing system, have been integrated by industry project partners, while research partners are currently looking for further application opportunities.  “An important lesson has been that when increasing automation in factories, technologies should be integrated smoothly with human expertise,” says project coordinator Eija Kaasinen from VTT in Finland. “For user acceptance and wide adoption, new solutions must take into account individual worker characteristics, skills and preferences.”
    - **objectives**: **Human-centred solutions** Smart factories use ICT technologies to plan, monitor and control production. This has the potential to achieve operational efficiencies, support individual customer requirements and provide workers with more highly skilled jobs. Given rising concerns over the impact of automation on jobs however, it is critical that human-centred factory solutions are prioritised.  In this respect, there is growing recognition that technology should not be seen as a threat, but rather as an opportunity to redesign work environments that take into account workers as skilled individuals. This was the overall concept of the Factory2Fit project.  “Our aim was to pilot human-centred factory solutions, improve work flows and engage workers,” explains Kaasinen. “Any smart factory solution should keep in mind that the technology itself is not smart; it is the combination of advanced technology and human practical knowledge that is smart.” The Factory2Fit project began by observing and interviewing workers and other industrial experts to get a thorough understanding of their needs and expectations. Workers from pilot companies participated in numerous co-design and evaluation activities. Project partners then developed tools, designed to help workers fulfil their potential in the workplace.  **Intelligent tools for skilled workers** Successful tools include an intelligent task distribution solution, developed as part of a wider Decision Support System to help factory supervisors allocate tasks. The tool uses an evolutionary algorithm that takes into account multiple criteria such as worker skills, capabilities and personal preferences. A Worker Feedback Dashboard was also developed to provide personal feedback on achievements and well-being.  A number of solutions were designed to help workers influence their own work. A virtual factory for example was built to test and further develop ideas in co-design sessions with workers and other work community members. Novel gamification techniques were also used to encourage knowledge sharing. The tools have the potential to be applied in numerous industrial settings and work environments.  “These solutions to engage the work community, including knowledge sharing, training and participatory design solutions, were piloted with industrial partners Continental (later CPT Group GmbH), Prima Power and UTRC,” says Kaasinen. “The pilots proved to be very successful, with 93 % of industrial users supporting the adoption of solutions. This indicates that workers are willing to take more active roles in designing their own work. An engaged work community is flexible and prepared for changes, because workers feel responsible, not only for their daily performance, but also for the future of the company. When people can influence their work, they experience their work as more meaningful.”
    - **comparision**:The Factory2Fit aim is quite similar to what we want to bring to the future, that is to enable humans(workers in the case of Fac2Fit) to enhance their control and capabilities with the use of AI in hybrid environment where AI is used to aid the humans. Their final project implements a knowledge sharing system in the industry standards, our project goes beyond the simple task of sharing knowledge and builds an AI system based on consensus (especially if the AI system is a decision support, that is a core functionality of IDIoHMA). We aim to used a lot of common devices as nodes for our framework, that devices could also be the ICT techologies used in factories for automation, monitoring or for whatever they are used, our framework will be used to orchestrate these devices and build a system capable of using the data gathered to generate some AI models that could aid humans in their work. From another perspective, IDIoHMA could be seen as an abstraction of some part of the project presented in Fac2Fit, especially for the low level implementation with the devices and the orchestration of these devices, along the provision of the AI capabilities.
  - [Highly Innovative building control Tools Tackling the energy performance GAP](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/680708)
    - **Abstract**:The ‘energy performance gap’ between the design and operation of a building is well documented and common errors across the four phases of construction (design, construction, commissioning and operational phases) can lead to a performance gap that ranges between 150-250% of the original design specification. Systematically addressing these errors and thus reducing the gap between design and performance is the main objective of the HIT2GAP project focusing on the exploitation phase.
HIT2GAP aims at linking enabling technologies and approaches used in the commissioning and operation phases of construction to improve the comparative predictions of the models and simulations that drive design and the actual performance of new and retrofitted buildings.
The approach taken in HIT2GAP was to build an open, plug and play, application-based platform. This approach is seen as the effective strategy to cover user requirements in buildings that by their nature (typology, climate, usage) are widely diverse. Furthermore, it allows the platform to evolve and remain up-to-date with new emerging technologies in order to better assess energy use within a building.
    - **objectives**:HIT2GAP has delivered BEMServer, an open source solution that enables building stakeholders to deploy a modular, scalable and secure Building Energy Management System by downloading the code directly or by working with the BEMServer community. BEMServer has an existing set of functionalities via its modules and new modules can be developed by 3rd party developers anytime. In this sense, BEMServer empowers developers worldwide to join together in making buildings more efficient.  For building owners and managers deploying BEMServer solutions, by using the most advanced web technologies, building data gain meaning and can empower all building actors, from managers to occupants, with new services to optimize energy consumption, comfort and building performance.  The modules already available with BEMServer are based on advanced data processing such as Artificial Intelligence and building performance simulation and cover services related with fault detection, ISO 50001 management, Renewable energy simulation, load forecasting, indoor environmental quality assessment and occupants’ behaviour modelling. 
    - **comparision**: Not related to my project, other than the overall design and the aim of using common devices already in use, so that could be seen as a way of lowering the energy performance by also providing some additional capabilities, I do not know.
  - [BD4NRG: Big Data for Next Generation Energy](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/872613)
    - **Abstract**:Advancements in next-generation energy technologies will drastically transform how the world generates and consumes power. Starting with the decentralisation of the energy system, it is necessary to establish a fair and secure engagement between big data and artificial intelligence (AI) technologies. To achieve this, there is a need for more standardisation of big data architectures for smart grids and regulatory frameworks that do not facilitate actual data sharing. The EU-funded BD4NRG project will develop a reference architecture for smart energy to align various architectures together with an interoperable AI-driven big data analytics framework. This will enable cross-stakeholders data-driven services and full interoperability of leading-edge big data technologies with smart grid standards and operational frameworks.
    - **objectives**:The rising decentralization of the energy system is unveiling an enormous opportunity for energy stakeholders to leverage on big data & AI technologies to improve decision making. There are however some barriers hampering the exploitation of this potential, such as the lack of standardized big data architectures for smart grids and regulatory frameworks not enabling data sharing. In that respect BD4NRG will i) deliver a reference architecture for Smart Energy, which aligns BDVA SRIA, IDSA and FIWARE architectures, SAREF standard and extend COSMAG specification to enable B2B multi-party data exchange, while providing full interoperability of leading-edge big data technologies with smart grid standards and operational frameworks ii) evolve and upscale a number of TRL 5-6 technology enablers, such as scalable sovereignty-preserving hybrid DLT/off-chain data governance, big data elastic pipeline orchestration, IoT/edge AI-based federated learning and multi-resource sharing tokenized marketplace, loosely integrate and deploy them within the TRL 7-8 BD4NRG framework iii) deliver a TRL8 open modular big data analytic toolbox as front-end for one-stop-shop analytics services development by orchestrating legacy and/or third party assets (data, computing resources, models, algorithms) iv) validate such framework through the delivery of predictive and prescriptive edge AI-based big data analytics on 13 large scale pilots, deployed by different energy stakeholders (TSOs and DSOs power network operators, aggregators, storage/renewable assets operators, local energy communities, ESCOs, power market operators, municipalities, financial institutions and ENTSO-E), fully covering the energy value chain v) setup a vibrant data-driven ecosystem through the SGBDAA Alliance, which will federate new energy data providers, attract SMEs for novel energy services provisioning through cascading funding and validate a hybrid energy/industry value chain supporting B2B joint digital platforms.
    - **comparision**: Another project similar to the one for smart grids, but more aimed toward big data and the creation of AI from this big data, this could be also used for use cases. 
  - [Augmenting Human and Artificial Intelligence to Scale Innovation](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/101023024)
    - **Abstract**: **Game-based technologies to scale innovation** European business investment in AI applications has long been sub-optimal due to limited capability and know-how. This has just recently been identified by the EU Commission as a key focus area for coordinated action and investment. The EU-funded AUGMENTED-HUMANS project will provide for a key opportunity to take a human-centred approach to building AI applications that incorporate game-based technologies that have shown great empirical and anecdotal promise in creating AI applications that drive business innovation. The project will focus, among others, on game-based technologies as mediators of engaging interactions.
    - **objectives**:The rise of artificial intelligence is driving the fourth industrial revolution and is steadily disrupting traditional business models, workplace practices and performance management. Despite the astonishing rate of progress with AI technology, problems and challenges in the current business environment cannot be solved by machines alone and require robust human-machine hybrid solutions; however these are still largely experimental with limited business adoption . A further challenge is that European business investment in AI applications has been sub-optimal due to limited capability and know-how  and this has just recently been identified by the EU Commission as a key focus area for co-ordinated action and investment . This proposal highlights a key opportunity to take a human-centred approach to building AI applications that incorporate game-based technologies that have shown great empirical and anecdotal promise in creating AI applications that drive business innovation. To address the challenges of the efficacy of human-machine interactions and AI adoption, in Augmented-Humans I will investigate how we can use game-based technologies (games, gamification, virtual and augmented reality) as mediators of engaging interactions and problem solving between human and machine that generate data, develop insights, facilitate business problem solving, and aid both human and machine learning. The outputs of this project will include the development of reusable game-based technology toolkits and applications for (a) Business systems for end-user engagement, stakeholder collaboration and robust decision support systems, (b) AI engineering and data science in utilising game-based technologies for data generation, machine learning, and developing human-machine collaboration systems for problem solving (e.g. ‘citizen science’ games), and (c) Public engagement applications that engage the public with AI meta issues of usability, awareness, trust and participation.
    - **comparision**: the project has not started yet and no reports are available, even though it is the most similar project
  - [Foundations of Trustworthy AI - Integrating Reasoning, Learning and Optimization](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/952215)
    - **Abstract**: **AI systems made safe, transparent and reliable** Maximising opportunities and minimising risks associated with artificial intelligence (AI) requires a focus on human-centred trustworthy AI. This can be achieved by collaborations between research excellence centres with a technical focus on combining expertise in theareas of learning, optimisation and reasoning. Currently, this work is carried out by an isolated scientific community where research groups are working individually or in smaller networks. The EU-funded TAILOR project aims to bring these groups together in a single scientific network on the Foundations of Trustworthy AI, thereby reducing the fragmentation and increasing the joint AI research capacity of Europe, helping it to take the lead and advance the state-of-the-art in trustworthy AI. The four main instruments are a strategic roadmap, a basic research programme to address grand challenges, a connectivity fund for active dissemination, and network collaboration activities.
    - **objectives**:Artificial Intelligence (AI) and all the key digital technologies that are subsumed by the term AI today are an essential part of the answers to many of the daunting challenges that we are facing. AI will impact the everyday lives of citizens as well as all business sectors. To maximize the opportunities and minimize the risks, Europe focuses on human-centered Trustworthy AI, and is taking important steps towards becoming the worldwide centre for Trustworthy AI. Trustworthiness however still requires significant basic research, and it is clear that the only way to achieve this is through the integration of learning, optimisation and reasoning, as neither approach will be sufficient on its own.  The purpose of TAILOR is to build a strong academic-public-industrial research network with the capacity of providing the scientific basis for Trustworthy AI leveraging and combining learning, optimization and reasoning for realizing AI systems that incorporate the safeguards that make them in the reliable, safe, transparent and respectful of human agency and expectations. Not only the mechanisms to maximize benefits, but also those for minimizing harm. The network will be based on a number of innovative state-of-the-art mechanisms. A multi-stakeholder strategic research and innovation research roadmap coordinates and guides the research in the five basic research programs. Each program forming virtual research environments with many of the best AI researchers in Europe addressing the major scientific challenges identified in the roadmap. A collection of mechanisms supporting innovation, commercialization and knowledge transfer to industry. To support network collaboration TAILOR provides mechanisms such as AI-Powered Collaboration Tools, a PhD program, and training programs. A connectivity fund to support active dissemination across Europe through for example allowing the network to grow and to support the scientific stepping up of more research groups.
    - **comparision**: a lot of papers and resources are available for this project
  - [Demonstration of a Decision Support System for a Novel Integrated Solution aimed at Water Reuse in the Oil & Gas Industry](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/688989)
    - **Abstract**:The oil and gas industry offer fertile ground for the development of ingenious water treatment technologies. An EU-funded project has stepped up with a smart platform for producing fit-for-purpose water that promises to reduce the industry’s water demand by 60 %.Oil and gas are the lifeblood of modern society. However, their industrial water consumption is a major drain on limited water supplies. In particular, this industry is considered one of the eight most intensive water users – large amounts of water are required for both upstream (oil extraction) and downstream (refining of petroleum crude oil) operations.
    - **objectives**:**Transitioning to a ‘one-water’ paradigm** The variability of wastewater from the oil and gas sector is one of the most critical issues that hinder the production of fit-for-purpose water – treating used water to a quality acceptable for the intended reuse. Examples of reuse include irrigation, firefighting flow testing, gas reinjection, cooling and boilers.  “Applying circular economy principles to water is the only way to ensure the sustainability of this resource. INTEGROIL clearly helps industries reuse wastewater for valuable applications, closing the circle and reducing the pressure on natural resources,” says Ana Jiménez-Banzo, Head of Innovation Management at ACCIONA Agua. Fit-for-purpose water is therefore a critical transitional step towards this paradigm.  With EU funding of the INTEGROIL project, the Spain-based company together with other partners developed an integrated solution that can treat highly complex and variable industrial waters, producing water of acceptable quality for many uses. “Reuse of treated wastewater typically accounts for 5-15 % in the oil and gas industry. INTEGROIL’s solution will increase this amount by around 40-60 %, dramatically helping reduce the industry’s water dependence on fresh resources,” notes Jiménez-Banzo.  **Key technologies of the treatment platform** INTEGROIL technology is a plug-and-play integrated solution that comprises five different technologies operating in a smart way thanks to a decision support system (DSS). “The DSS is a key component that brings intelligence to our solution. It can dynamically adjust the treatment scheme needed to achieve the water quality targets for a particular water reuse application and provides advice on the specific technology that should be activated, depending on the case,” explains Jiménez-Banzo.  Each of INTEGROIL's five different technologies is aimed at removing a specific fraction/contaminant of the wastewater. The DSS element is in charge of identifying and activating/deactivating the most suitable combination of individual technologies (16 possible combinations), depending on the wastewater to be treated, the reuse application and operational efficiency criteria.  In short, there is a dissolved air flotation module for removing suspended solids and a ceramic membrane filtration module, alone or as part of a membrane bioreactor, for removing suspended or colloidal matter. Furthermore, there are two different advanced oxidation processes (catalytic wet air oxidation and ozone/hydrogen peroxide) for removing different types of organic matter, and a reverse osmosis step for reducing salinity.  **Demonstration activities** The five technologies that the DSS effectively manages were successfully tested in a pilot demonstration plant in two representative applications from the oil sector. Results showed that wastewater reuse exceeded 50 %. “An additional advantage that makes the deployment of INTEGROIL technology at large scale easier is that it does not require a high degree of expertise in water treatment – the DSS can activate and deactivate processes on its own,” concludes Jiménez-Banzo.
    - **comparision**:other than the various sensors anad the DSS of this project, I do not see much related to IDIoHMA, the cordis platform has given me this and some of others projects but I do not see anything else other than a use-case/pilot.
  - [WIreLess LOWband communications: massive and ultra-reliable access](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/648382)
    - **Abstract**:A pioneering ERC-funded project anticipated and established some of the founding principles for the hyperconnected world in which we will live.Cellular wireless systems from 2G to today’s 4G have been continuously evolving towards offering broadband connectivity to the users. While the trend of reaching even higher rates will continue in the fifth generation of wireless systems, there is a common consensus that 5G will not only be “4G, but faster“, but it will offer new modes of connectivity to a massive number of simple devices and/or support extremely reliable connections. WILLOW was a precursor to this consensus, as its research plan was proposed back in 2014, when the notions of massive and ultra-reliable communication were in their infancy.  It is very rewarding to see that this plan has become one of the central elements on the global research agenda for wireless communications in relation to 5G systems and beyond. Namely, since 2014 Massive machine-type communications (mMTC) and Ultra-reliable and low-latency communications (URLLC) became two of the three pillars of 5G and the main arguments for the digital revolution brought by 5G and the other emerging wireless systems. Figure 1 was originally part of the WILLOW proposal and it turned into one of the most recognizable graphs that describes the operation of 5G systems. The prevalence of these research topics is seen in the surge of special issues, workshops, and papers dedicated to massive and-or ultra-reliable wireless communications for Internet of Things (IoT). It can thus be confidently stated that WILLOW made a major contribution to the worldwide research agenda on wireless communications. This is seen through the more than 80 publications that came out of the project, some of which already have a large number of citations.  The objective of WILLOW has been to investigate the fundamental wireless schemes and protocols for massive and ultra-reliable lowband connectivity, now widely known as IoT connectivity. The avaliability of IoT connectivity for massive number of devices, as well as support for IoT connections with ultra-high reliability, will introduce disruptive changes in the vertical sectors: energy, transportation, industrial production, health, etc. For example, once ultra-reliable wireless connections are available, the notion of a robot changes from a single physical entity to a distributed group of modules that are wirelessly collaborating towards performing the robotic function. This paradigm fits in the emerging concept of Industry 4.0 taht consists of smart interconnected production facilities.  5G is quickly becoming the foundational digital technology in the world and WILLOW made pioneering contributions to the two novel aspects of 5G, massive and ultra-reliable IoT, which is an indicator for a large potential impact on the society.
    - **Introduction**:The overall objective of WILLOW is to make wireless communication a true commodity by enabling lowband communications: low-rate links for massive number of devices and ultra-reliable connectivity. This research effort is a major endeavour in the area of wireless communications, taking a different path from the mainstream research that aims at “4G, but faster”. Lowband communication is the key to enabling new applications, such as massive sensing, ultra-reliable vehicular links and wireless cloud connectivity with guaranteed minimal rate. The research in WILLOW is centred on two fundamental issues. First, it is the efficient communication with short packets, in which the data size is comparable to the size of the metadata, i.e. control information, which is not the case in broadband communication. Communication of short packets that come from a massive number of devices and/or need to meet a latency constraint requires fundamental rethinking of the packet structure and the associated communication protocols. Second is the system architecture in which graceful rate degradation, low latency and massive access can exist simultaneously with the broadband services. The principles from WILLOW will be applied to: (a) clean-slate wireless systems; (b) reengineer existing wireless systems. Option (b) is unique to lowband communication that does not require high physical-layer speed, but can reuse the physical layer of an existing system and redefine the metadata/data relationship to achieve massive/ultra-reliable communication. WILLOW carries high risk by conjecturing that it is possible to support an unprecedented number of connected devices and wireless reliability levels. Considering the timeliness and the relevance, the strong track record of the PI and the rich wireless research environment at Aalborg University, WILLOW is poised to make a breakthrough towards lowband communications and create the technology that will enable a plethora of new wireless usage modes.
    - **comparison or inspiration**:Interesting and relevant, especially the part of the modules for the robot that are interconnected via 5G and not via direct connection. Other than that, only the consideration and the technologies developed could be used in IDIoHMA, the concept and objective in general is totally different since it is describing some protocols and sets of techniques.
  - [An e-infrastructure for software, training and consultancy in simulation and modelling](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/676531)
    - **Abstract**:E-CAM has sought to prepare the extended E-CAM community for the demands of upcoming exascale systems, paving the way for the portability of entire application stacks and workflows to all the architectures that will be available through EuroHPC. We have addressed core cross-cutting topics such as load balancing, intelligent high throughput computing, accelerator portability and the portability of entire software stacks, and repeatedly worked with individual applications to evaluate and improve their performance, collaborating with other projects in the EuroHPC eco-system along the way.  In addition, E-CAM has raised awareness of best practices in scientific computing, and encouraged people to consistently use version control, documentation, continuous integration, modular software development, configure/build/install installation processes and supporting tools, and open source software licences.  E-CAM has disseminated the EuroHPC eco-system among the thousands of scientists associated with CECAM, and trained hundreds of them, exposing them to  HPC resources that they might never otherwise have known, embedding HPC as a go-to tool in their computational workflows.  The scientific output from E-CAM is remarkable, both in terms of the development of new algorithms and methods and the related scientific publications with clear benefits for academic and industrial researchers. E-CAM has supported academic and industrial research via pilot projects focused on industrially oriented problems. Our scoping workshops and state-of-the-art workshops on topics of interest for industry represented new forums for discussion with industry.  Dissemination efforts towards the general public have been pursued, specifically through success stories and interviews with industrialists and academics on topics of general interest, and a Comic book about E-CAM and how it enables modelling, simulation and HPC.  Several actions (software development, new formats for workshops) initiated in the project have clearly proved of strategic interest for the community and will be maintained and further developed.
    - **Introduction**:E-CAM will create, develop and sustain a European infrastructure for computational science applied to simulation and modelling of materials and of biological processes of industrial and societal importance. Building on the already significant network of 15 CECAM centres across Europe and the PRACE initiative, it will create a distributed, sustainable centre for simulation and modelling at and across the atomic, molecular and continuum scales.  The ambitious goals of E-CAM will be achieved through three complementary instruments: 1. development, testing, maintenance, and dissemination of robust software modules targeted at end-user needs; 2. advanced training of current and future academic and industrial researchers able to exploit these capabilities; 3. multidisciplinary, coordinated, top-level applied consultancy to industrial end-users (both large multinationals and SMEs).  The creation and development of this infrastructure will also impact academic research by creating a training opportunity for over 300 researchers in computational science as applied to their domain expertise.  It will also provide a structure for the optimisation and long-term maintenance of important codes and provide a route for their exploitation. Based on the requests from its industrial end-users, E-CAM will deliver new software in a broad field by creating over 200 new, robust software modules. The modules will be written to run with maximum efficiency on hardware with different architectures, available at four PRACE centres and at the Hartree Centre for HPC in Industry. The modules will form the core of a software library (the E-CAM library) that will continue to grow and provide benefit well beyond the funding period of the project.  E-CAM has a 66 month duration, involves 48 staff years of effort, has a total budget of €5,836,897 and is requesting funding from the EC of €4,836,897, commensurate with achieving its ambitious goals.
    - **comparison or inspiration**:Interesting and full of projects related to HPC, there are a lot of projects and I could use some of them maybe. Also the project is inspiring in how it is formed of other sub-projects related to the common goal, and that is what I want to do, to build the framework(decentralized multi-agent orchestrated system with collaboration and support for sharing information and dynamic devices, along with different kind of data on the input and feedback from the users, implicit or explicit) and then adding functionalities(trust-worthy decision support, consensus models, federated learning, distributed learning, engagement models, collaborative strategies, smart workloads, virtualization etc.)
  - [General compliant aerial Robotic manipulation system Integrating Fixed and Flapping wings to INcrease range and safety](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/788247)
    - **Abstract**:The goal of GRIFFIN is the development of a new generation of bioinspired aerial robots with manipulation capabilities that will be able to safely operate in sites where rotorcrafts cannot do it and physically interact with people.  In GRIFFIN we are deriving a unified framework with methods, tools and technologies for the development of robots that can fly minimizing energy consumption by the combination of gliding and flapping modes of flight, perch on constrained surfaces, fold the wings and perform dexterous manipulation.  The flapping unmanned aerial vehicles, also called ornithopters, that  we propose,  improve the existent aerial manipulators based on multirotor platforms in terms of longer flight,  duration of missions and safety in proximity to humans. The absence of propellers makes such vehicles more resistant to physical contact, permitting flight in cluttered environments, and to collaborate  with humans. Importantly, the provision of thousands of species of birds that have already mastered the challenging task of flapping flight is a rich source of solutions.  In GRIFFIN we have developed prototypes that are able to carry a payload of 100% of its own weigh including all the electronics, computer and sensors for autonomous operation. We also developed morphing wings, bioinspired tails and claws.  These prototypes are being produced with additive manufacturing integrating parts with different materials.  Moreover, we have developed kinematic, dynamic and aerodynamic models, as well as adaptive control and guidance techniques, that have been validated both indoors and outdoors.  GRIFFIN has produced the first fully autonomous ornithopters with embedded environment perception, control and decision capabilities that have been validated indoors and outdoors.  Particularly, we have designed, developed and  validated  prototypes,  with event-cameras and conventional cameras,  providing images that are processed on-board to build maps of the environment, estimate the position of the ornithopter, detect perching sites and perform perching manoeuvres on a small surface.  The manipulation can be performed by maintaining fixed contact with a surface, such as a pole or a pipe, by means of one or more limbs, and manipulating with others, overcoming the current limitations of accurate manipulation in free flying. Particularly, we have developed prototypes that have demonstrated manipulation capabilities by maintaining  the equilibrium of forces when perched and following a desired path with the end-effector. This allows several possible applications, such as contact inspection with an ultrasonic sensor mounted in the end-effector.  New software tools are being developed to facilitate the design and implementation of the above complex robotic systems. Thus, configurations with different complexity could be derived depending on the requirements of flight endurance and manipulation tasks,  from simple grasping to more complex dexterous manipulation.  The GRIFFIN bioinspired aerial robots could be applied in a large variety of tasks,  such as the transportation and delivery of small loads, the contact inspection in sites difficult to reach,  and even the assistance in search and rescue operations being able to measure biometric parameters of victims.
    - **Introduction**:The goal of GRIFFIN is the derivation of a unified framework with methods, tools and technologies for the development of flying robots with dexterous manipulation capabilities. The robots will be able to fly minimizing energy consumption, to perch on curved surfaces and to perform dexterous manipulation. Flying will be based on foldable wings with flapping capabilities. They will be able to safely operate in sites where rotorcrafts cannot do it and physically interact with people.  Dexterous manipulation will be performed maintaining fixed contact with a surface, such as a pole or a pipe, by means of one or more limbs and manipulating with others overcoming the limitations of dexterous manipulation in free flying of existing aerial manipulators. Compliance will play an important role in these robots and in their flight and manipulation control methods. The control systems will be based on appropriate kinematic, dynamic and aerodynamic models. The GRIFFIN robots will have autonomous perception, reactivity and planning based on these models. They will be also able to associate with others to perform cooperative manipulation tasks. New software tools will be developed to facilitate the design and implementation of these complex robotic systems. Thus, configurations with different complexity could be derived depending on the requirements of flight endurance and manipulation tasks from simple grasping to more complex dexterous manipulation. The implementation will be based on additive and shape deposition manufacturing to fabricate multi-material parts and parts with embedded electronics and sensors. In GRIFFIN we will develop a small flapping wings proof of concept prototype which will be able to land autonomously on a small surface by using computer vision, a manipulation system with the body attached to a pole, and finally full size prototypes which will demonstrate flying, landing and manipulation, including cooperative manipulation, by maintaining the equilibrium.
    - **comparison or inspiration**:Interesting like the other projects, not really related to IDIoHMA though.
  - [aGent Oriented Zero Defect Multi-stage mANufacturing](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/723764)
    - **Abstract**:The main idea of GO0D MAN project is to integrate and combine process and quality control for a multi – stage manufacturing production into a distributed system architecture built on agent-based Cyber-Physical Systems and smart inspection tools. This framework, based on agents associated to each process and to each product, supports the real-time data collection and defect diagnosis at single process level, as well as the inter-stage sharing and processing of information at global level using data analytics techniques. The ZDM strategy proposed by the GO0D MAN project runs on this framework, at local and at global system level, and has been demonstrated in three relevant industrial cases with multi-stage production lines, having different levels of automation and production rate.  The objectives of GO0D MAN project were set to allow realization of a fully functional, replicable and therefore widely exploitable solution. The developed architecture contains all the technological pillars of the GO0D MAN project and shows their relations and roles at Operational and Information Technology levels and they are: Smart On-line Inspection Tools, the Multi Agent System, the ZDM Data Analytics and the ZDM Knowledge Management.  The proposed architecture and approach have been fully implemented and integrated in the three selected industrial cases, which were chosen in order to represent more than 80% of the manufacturing sector, namely: Volkswagen Autoeuropa which represents a typical modern assembly plant for semi-automated car mass production, at relatively high production rate; Zannini which represents a typical multi-stage production of components in batches ; Electrolux Professional which represents a mainly manual and customized type of production at slow production rate. In all the three plants the GO0D MAN project brought innovation at the levels of advanced instrumentation for in-line quality control, distributed IT architecture based on agents, data analytics software and knowledge management software. The demonstration phase of the project successfully validated the proposed architecture and its technological components.  At the end, the project demonstrated that the GO0D MAN concept is general and fully deployable in the different manufacturing contexts, bringing some important impacts.  The results obtained have been very promising. Some lessons learned have been deducted and they will drive the future activities of the partners that are looking forward for a business take off for the majority of components developed.
    - **Introduction**:Multi-stage manufacturing, which is typical in important industrial sectors such as automotive, house hold appliance and semiconductor manufacturing just to name few, is inherently complex. The main idea of GO0D MAN project is to integrate and combine process and quality control for a multi –stage manufacturing production into a distributed system architecture built on agent-based Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) and smart inspection tools designed to support Zero-Defect Manufacturing (ZDM) strategies. Data analytics tools provide a mean for knowledge build-up, system control and ZDM management. Real time and early identification of deviations and trends, performed at local level, allow to prevent the generation of defects at single stage and their propagation to down-stream processes, enabling the global system to be predictive (early detection of process faults) and proactive (self-adaptation to different conditions).  The GO0D MAN project is based on the results of previous successful EU projects and integrates them to realize and deploy a Zero Defect Manufacturing framework for multi-stage production lines, in collaboration with industry partners, a system integrator, two technology providers and three end users. The use cases are representative of key European industrial sectors and have different types of multi-stage production systems: the first use case concerns highly automated serial mass production of automotive components, the second use case is about batch production of high precision mechanical components for automotive electro valves, the third use case produces professional customized products such as ovens for restaurants. Successful completion of this project will provide a replicable system architecture for ZDM. The results will be broadly applicable in a variety of industries to improve the overall quality and productivity of production systems.
    - **comparison or inspiration**:Like the non-european project about the zero defect manufacturing, this project also integrates other functionalities in a distributed system architectureon agent based devices. **TODO** study the research more thoroughly.
  - [Achieving Complex Collaborative Missions via Decentralized Control and Coordination of Interacting Robots](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/731869)
    - **Abstract**:Imagine a future social/industrial facility where robots have been deployed to provide services and accomplish everyday tasks like object handling/transportation, or pickup and delivery operations. In this context, different robots with different actuation, manipulation and perception capabilities must be coordinated to achieve various complex tasks that require collaborative actions with each other and with humans. Thus, the supervision and coordination of the overall heterogeneous system mandates a decentralized framework that integrates high-level task-planning, low-level motion control and robust, real-time robot perception. From the World Robotics Survey, indoor logistics have become a major market. Sales of professional service robots in the logistics segment registered a growth of 28% in 2014 with the value of sales increasing to USD 2.2 billion. This shows the opportunity for European companies to address this area. Current practice in coordination of robotic teams is mostly based on offline, centralized planning and related tasks are almost exclusively fulfilled in a predefined manner. Only a little room is allowed for real-time and coordinated decentralized actions. We argue that this does not utilize the capabilities of multi-robot systems to operate efficiently in a dynamic environment. In most cases, sudden changes in the environment, the type of assigned tasks, and the need for coordination, would cause the system to halt, ask for a human intervention and restart. Thus the need for a framework for decentralized, real-time, automated task (re)-planning is evident.  Based on the above, the goal of Co4Robots is to build: (i) a systematic real-time decentralized methodology to accomplish complex mission specifications given to a team of potentially heterogeneous robots; (ii) a set of control schemes appropriate for the mobility and manipulation capabilities of the considered robotic platforms, their types and dynamics, the unexpected and sudden changes in the environment, and the presence of humans; (iii) a set of perceptual capabilities that enable robots to localize themselves and estimate the state of their highly dynamic environment, in the presence of strong interactions and in a collaborative manner; and (iv) their corresponding systematic integration at both the conceptual and the software implementation levels.
    - **Introduction**:Imagine a scenario where multiple robots have been deployed to provide services such as object handling/transportation, or pickup and delivery operations. In such a context, different robots with varying capabilities must be coordinated in order to achieve various multi-tasking procedures. Thus, the effective supervision and coordination of the overall heterogeneous system mandates a decentralized framework that integrates high-level task-planning, low-level motion control and robust, real-time sensing of the robots’ dynamic environment. Current practice is at a great deal based on offline, centralized planning and related tasks are usually fulfilled in a predefined manner: this does not utilize the capabilities of the system to operate efficiently in a dynamic environment. In most cases, sudden changes in the environment, the type of tasks, and the need for coordination, would cause the system to halt, ask for human intervention and restart. Despite the fact that public facilities are in some degree prestructured, the need for a framework for decentralized, real-time, automated task (re)-planning is evident in a twofold manner: (i) it will pave the way to an improved use of resources and a faster accomplishment of tasks inside public facilities and workspaces with high social activity; (ii) it will make an important contribution towards the vision of more flexible multirobot applications in both professional or domestic environments, also in view of the “Industry 4.0” vision and the general need to deploy such systems in everyday life scenarios. Within Co4Robots our goal is to build a systematic methodology to accomplish complex specifications given to a team of potentially heterogeneous robots; control schemes appropriate for the mobility and manipulation capabilities of the considered robots; perceptual capabilities that enable robots to localize themselves and estimate the state of the dynamic environment; and their systematic integration approach.
    - **comparison or inspiration**:Very interesting and related to my proposal, the whole concept of coordination and interaction with humans is great for IDIoHMA, I need to see the reports and resources better **TODO**

compare the methodologies with the ones used for non-european projects and european projects as well, not getting too much into details since the methodology will be presented in the next section.
I also want to use some things about graphs (other than knowledge graphs to build the meta-model), especially for the decentralized mesh network of devices, **TODO**

SSH is tackled with the addressing of the engagement of the user with the software that implements IDIoHMA, to address this topic, the framework will come with some sub-modules dedicated to this and the research will be addressing the topic of engagement for humans in a thoroughly manner since the main concern is to let the people participate with the software because the core functionalities of Decision Support System based on consensus will rely and heavily depend on the interaction of humans. 

4. methodology

5. interdisciplinary nature
